# Network Product Team Sync - Summary

**Date:** Feb 10, 2026

**Attendees:** Rich O'Grady, Mehrdad Sadeghi, Qiang Han, Speedy Bird Tech, John Mull, Mike Zoop, Josh, (Pelina - Marketing Manager, not directly involved in technical discussion)

## Key Discussion Points:

*   **Meeting Purpose & Vision:** Rich O'Grady initiated the sync to align a cross-functional team on building the "network product," envisioned as a central access point for developers to interact with the network's capabilities. This product is considered critical for the Livepeer ecosystem's success.
*   **Network Product Goals (Epics):** Three core collective goals were defined:
1.  **Foundational Metrics and Platform:** Achieve observability and a dashboard by the end of February.
2.  **Network MVP Launch:** Publicly launch the Network MVP with core plugins and essential platform capabilities.
3.  **Community Plugins Integration:** Integrate the first community-built plugins to drive demand on the network.
*   **Network Product Vision & Characteristics:** The product aims to be:
*   **Observable:** Enabling monitoring and understanding of network activity.
*   **Performant:** Reliable, scalable, and secure.
*   **User-Centric:** Solving user pain points and enabling demand.
*   **Modular & Plugin-Based Architecture:** The product is being built with a modular approach, starting with core plugins and eventually transitioning plugin development to the community, with the platform acting as an app store.
*   **Roles & Responsibilities:** Roles were clarified, with specific attention to Mike Zoop and Speedy Bird Tech as data engineers. The need to integrate Josh, working on the SDK initiative with John Mull, was also acknowledged.
*   **Technical Program Manager (TPM) Role:** Mehrdad Sadeghi's role as TPM involves being the "operational glue," ensuring deliverables are met, and anticipating blockers.
*   **SDK Development:** John Mull and Josh are focused on SDK development, noting ongoing work and the need to keep pace with evolving requirements.
*   **Plugin Clarity Needed:** A significant portion of the discussion revolved around defining "plugins." John Mull, Speedy Bird Tech, and Josh voiced a need for greater clarity on their definition, value, and technical implementation. This highlighted potential confusion between "plugins," "features," and "modules."
*   **Follow-up Meeting on Plugins:** Due to the complexity and varying perspectives on plugins, Rich O'Grady agreed to a dedicated, facilitated follow-up meeting on Thursday to thoroughly define and prioritize them.
*   **Administrative & Operational Updates:**
*   **Weekly Syncs:** A fixed weekly sync meeting every Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. GMT for 30 minutes, to be run by Mehrdad Sadeghi, was proposed.
*   **Public Glossary:** Rich O'Grady and Mehrdad Sadeghi will collaborate on a public glossary on GitHub to clarify terms like "plugin."
*   **Communication Channels:** A shift towards using public channels and GitHub for project updates, milestones, and issues was agreed upon to promote transparency and facilitate community integration.
*   **GitHub for Planning:** The consensus is to use GitHub for planning and updates, favoring asynchronous communication.
*   **Process Management:** Mehrdad Sadeghi will coordinate with engineering teams to create issues, commit them to milestones, and manage timelines. Rich O'Grady will oversee different milestones across verticals to ensure harmony.
*   **Technical Specifications & Documentation:** Qiang Han will share relevant conceptual documents and code from the repository to aid in understanding the plug-in architecture.

## Suggested Next Steps:

*   **Thursday Meeting on Plugins:** Rich O'Grady will schedule a 30-minute meeting for Thursday to discuss and define "plugins."
*   **Weekly Syncs:** Group will meet weekly on Tuesdays at 5:00 p.m. GMT, starting next Tuesday.
*   **Glossary Development:** Rich O'Grady and Mehrdad Sadeghi will create a public glossary on GitHub.
*   **Pre-reading Material:** Rich O'Grady and Qiang Han will prepare pre-reading material and a list of initial core plugins for the Thursday meeting.
*   **Design Aspects:** John Mull and Josh will continue working on the design aspects of the SDK and related components.
*   **Milestone Planning for Epic 1:** Mehrdad Sadeghi will lead a session with Qiang Han and John Mull to finalize issues and milestones for the first epic.

