# Network Product Team Sync - Transcript
**Date:** Feb 10, 2026

**(00:00:00)**
**Qiang Han:** with that.
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah, someone recording. Can Can someone record as well if that's all
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah,
**Rich O'Grady:** right?
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** I I started Gemini on my side, so it's taking
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay, great. That should be enough.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** notes.
**Rich O'Grady:** Um I think um is it possible to record as well? Ben Ben wanted to do I is
**Qiang Han:** I think only you have the recording. I don't have the right for recording.
**Rich O'Grady:** it just me?
**Qiang Han:** I think so.
**Rich O'Grady:** There we go. Yeah.
**Qiang Han:** I tried to do but it's unavailable for me. Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** Got it. There we go.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** I just admit yours. Yeah,
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** your note taker is also
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome. Hi,
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Hey everybody.
**Rich O'Grady:** how you doing, mate?
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** here.
**Rich O'Grady:** You well?
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Yeah, doing well. How about yourself?
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah. Very good. Very good.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Finally warming up over here.

**(00:00:49)**
**Speedy Bird Tech:** It was uh minus5 for quite a
**Rich O'Grady:** bloody hell.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** while.
**Rich O'Grady:** Is that Fahrenheit or Celsius?
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Oh, no, no, no,
**Rich O'Grady:** No,
**Speedy Bird Tech:** no.
**Rich O'Grady:** I was going to say that's like deathly.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** even worse
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome. Um,
**Speedy Bird Tech:** than
**Rich O'Grady:** I'm conscious of time, so I do want to get cracking and then Speedy, is Mike is Mike joining
**Speedy Bird Tech:** I'm not sure.
**Rich O'Grady:** us?
**Speedy Bird Tech:** He's still having some heat problems. So, uh I think he has some technician at his house helping him try to unfreeze his heater. So,
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay, great.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** I got it covered though. No,
**Rich O'Grady:** Do we know do we know if um John is joining
**Speedy Bird Tech:** no worries.
**Rich O'Grady:** us, Chan, by any chance? Do you know?
**Qiang Han:** I I don't know. He should you know I canceled our meeting so he knows like it's happening tomorrow.

**(00:01:42)**
**Qiang Han:** He should join.
**Rich O'Grady:** Is this him? Yeah. Great, John. Oh, and we have Mike. Look at this full house. Um, hi Mike. How you doing,
**Mike Zoop:** Hey guys,
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah.
**Mike Zoop:** sorry I'm going to be on mute a lot.
**Rich O'Grady:** mate?
**Mike Zoop:** I have some heating people in the house still been having buttload of heating issues, but I'm going to try to participate as best I
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome. Um, great. Well, I'm gonna just crack on and um yeah, we uh we can we can see if you need to duck out for heating issues and to stay warm, feel free to. Um, great. So, first of all, a big thank you to everyone joining the call. I know that a lot of work is already being done. I know that Chang, you've you've made great leaps forward with the network product platform. I know that Mike Speedy, you've done some awesome work already with uh network data observability.

**(00:02:45)**
**Rich O'Grady:** So yeah, the purpose of this is to try and get us all rowing in the same direction and ensure that we have this crossf functional team dynamic when it comes to building the network product. So I wanted to establish this this cadence which we can discuss in a uh in a bit but to really ensure that this group of people really knows what each each other is working on on a regular structured basis so that we can work towards some um some big goals over the next couple of months. Why is this? Well, the foundation is bet betting the kitchen sink on the network product, right? We want to put everything behind it because we think that um the work that uh that's being done is the most critical work to the ecosystem as it as it is now, the lip project. Um, so our job is to try and make this a a success, not just in building it, but also taking it to market and incentivizing um the the community to get involved. Um, so I wanted uh to just go through a quick quick agenda.

**(00:03:58)**
**Rich O'Grady:** We'll have a very quick like team and network product introduction. Um, I know Pelina's on the call. Everyone else knows each other. Um, but yeah, we can maybe just have a a quick intro. Um and also I'll have a quick introduction um to the network product just to make us make sure we're all on the same wavelength when we talk about certain things. Then we we'll go through some roles and responsibilities. This is stuff that ultimately um is already in motion, right? Everyone's already got a role and already playing a part. But I wanted to formalize a lot of this now so that when we think about different roles and responsibilities, we we know each other's swim lanes, right? That's super important. And we also know the swim lanes that will exist in the future as new people join the team. Um then we'll talk a bit about the timeline and the the upcoming um I'm calling them epics because we'll leave milestones to the individual groups. So cloud SP network product engineering and sort of like found it foundation go to market team right so we'll call them epics for now um as a way of thinking of that timeline for network product MVP how we get this out the door um how we get this not just launched

**(00:05:14)**
**Rich O'Grady:** but obviously then tested and validated then we'll talk a bit about how we work together and and finally think about next steps um so maybe Let's just hop straight in with some introductions. 10 seconds each. So, um obviously Rich, this is mainly for Pelina. Um or maybe maybe Pelina. Um no, I I'll go first and then we'll come around. Um Rich working on that network uh working with Lair project for last two years on the foundation and and primarily looking at growth and go to market. John, do you want to go next?
**John Mull:** Sure. Hello everyone. My name is John. I've been an orchestrator uh with Live Pier for about four years almost now. I run the Elite Encoder node and uh I originally discovered Live Pier wanting to build uh my own broadcasting website.
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**John Mull:** It's a decentralized alternative to YouTube and uh found a lot of friction with that and uh that's how I became developer here for the most part in a nutshell. Um, yeah.

**(00:06:15)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Chan, do you want to go next?
**Qiang Han:** Sorry, I muted myself. So, my name is H. So, I'm coming from the Inc. side and just initiated this, you know, portal based, you know, NA project and hopefully we can work together to make this happen.
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**Qiang Han:** Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** But that
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah, burn here ecosystemwide PM with lifeare foundation. I the most of the things that I do is just tracking programs across the foundation and this
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** has also been my work prior to this in couple of other ecosystems like raid guild, pocket network, R&D and etc.
**Rich O'Grady:** Spinning.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Hey uh I'm uh orchestrator been around with live here for about three years now and um currently working on the data uh pipelines for making data more observable on the platform and obviously I think everyone here more or less knows about that.
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Um and my background is in uh software engineering uh for quite a number of decades from hands-on to executive leadership.
**Rich O'Grady:** M
**Mike Zoop:** Hey um orchestrator for four years in live pier been part of the cloud s for the last two years multiple grant recipient for individual projects helping the orchestrator community been also part of several cloud this being the third cloud sbe proposal that

**(00:07:35)**
**Mike Zoop:** I've worked on. I'm also a software engineering background uh multiple decades in working on largecale systems for you know largest companies in America and around the world.
**Rich O'Grady:** And Pelina
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** You mute if you
**Rich O'Grady:** Pelina. Okay, no problem. Pelina is marketing manager. She's she's running a lot of the socials. She works with Myiosen. She also has a uh has her own agency um and does a lot of like the d content and distribution for the lip network. important because she'll be doing a lot of the distribution and coms from uh from from this perspective and I want her included here so this isn't just in an echo chamber. Um we very quickly try and get this out to the the the wider world um as we go. Awesome. Um, next thing we're going to be working and my job is to try and get everyone to come to terms and give feedback on what I'm calling this MVP one pager which ultimately is a single source of truth that whenever we're talking about things within the network product as a whole and I I see these all everyone on this this group contributing towards it we talk at the same language and we talk about the same aims uh etc. So, does everyone have access to this just to just to clarify?

**(00:09:20)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah, every Yeah. Okay, great. Um, so I I'm going to ask everyone to give feedback on it after. Um what you'll see is like there's a section called to discuss which is what we've sort of you know what is actively being discussing and there's a section down here to be discussed which is not quite there yet because of various reasons right so for for this group what's critical is that we only discuss things that are like active okay and a quick introduction to the network product so as I said I know that there's been a lot of work done um making network data more observable. Mike and Speedy have worked with with Chang, various other um ecosystem actors, Rick, Rick, Josh, uh Brad. I know a lot of people have been involved. Um and really the vision for for the network product has come from from Chung. Um big kudos to you to building the the MVP or prototype. Sorry, not the MVP, but a prototype to to bring it to life. And really um you know why do we need this network product?

**(00:10:29)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Well developers need a way of of uh actively engaging in and accessing the the network right this is across the board. This is not just for demand purposes. It's also uh to be able to run gateways. It's to be able to um uh you know access transcoding purposes outside of lip studio real time AI. There needs to be a central point, a shelling point where a lot of this where all of this activity takes place and a cruise value back to the Live Pier brand rather than being scattered across multiple um multiple products. And I'm going to I'm going to ask everyone to give feedback on this after. But really the central point and the for this MVP that we're looking at is thinking of enabling demand on the network. Everything that we do should be about enabling demand on the network. That doesn't mean necessarily bringing demand directly on the network, but enabling it through the different component parts or plugins um that that ultimately um enable demand at at scale. Right now, what is the network product?

**(00:11:42)**
**Rich O'Grady:** There are three core things that the network product should be. It should be observable. Right? This is everything that um Mike Mike and Speedy you're you're working on. It should be performant i.e. it should it should work and should be reliable, scalable and hopefully in the future in the future more secure as well so that there can be enterprise production grade solutions built on top and then finally user centric i.e. Everything that we do should be solving a pain point that a user or customer has and that should enable demand on the network. Right? So all of these things observability, performance, user centricity are things that ultimately enable demand on the network and we should be thinking about whenever we're building the platform or various plugins um that come with it. Now how we build this network product is is we need to discuss in in in more detail. Obviously um Chun has already made some some great progress with it um from a a modularity perspective and having the overall uh platform and then having this modular plug-in based approach where we can build out core uh core plugins to begin with but then ultimately plug-in development can be passed over to the community and we act as a sort of pseudo app store which can make sure that the best plugins rise to the top based on usage,

**(00:13:14)**
**Rich O'Grady:** based on popularity, not just with the community, but also with real world usage. A lot there. I think this is everything that we've um we've covered before. Is there anything that stands out as something that you veerly disagree with in what I've just said or anything important to add? What I don't want right now is a big discussion, but something that that we can put a pin in if you veermentally disagree with something that I've said or have something to add. Particularly Chan, anything to add from your side? Um, as I know, you know, this is largely your baby's movement. Okay, awesome. John Speedy.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** No, I'm good. I'm I'm pretty well verssed in the in the positioning.
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome. Okay, great. So, this is just coming to terms and we'll sort of like tighten the screw on these on this Y and W as we as we move forward. Um, great. So, this is first things first. Um what I now wanted to do is just go through the different roles and responsibilities that everyone on this call has and to ensure that everyone is a uh you know to give a space to clarifying questions around any of the world's responsibilities and to contest any responsibilities that I have said people have when they don't have them or they think they should have them.

**(00:14:47)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Great. So here you'll see an overview of the different roles that are currently exist and that currently um will exist in the future. Mike and Speedy, I put you down as data engineers um because you know I know a lot of what you're doing is data engineering rather than putting you down as cloud SP just to be like clear about your role function. Um, what I would ask is for everyone to take three minutes just to go in and review particularly your role and responsibility and check that that is aligned with what you're expecting. Okay. And put a timer on.
**Qiang Han:** No,
**Rich O'Grady:** But if you could just Yeah,
**Qiang Han:** can you send me the link again? Um, I got before,
**Rich O'Grady:** sure.
**Qiang Han:** but we tried it. Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** No problem. You should have access to the bot. There we go. Okay. Okay, I'm going to put a timer on for 3 minutes just to to go and and also feel free to check out others if you've already checked your own and you're happy with it.

**(00:15:55)**
**Rich O'Grady:** I'll keep I'll keep sharing One one other thing to think about is have I missed any roles here? That's another important thing to think like we're missing something.
**Qiang Han:** Um probably one thing probably is more to fit into this senior engineers but less about the plugins but Josh Josh is doing this SDK initiative is part of the road map or originally assume it's just part of this but his contribution is significant to make this work and John is building things on top of it so that's someone we actually uh overlooked in the purest conversation.
**Rich O'Grady:** Great. Um,
**Qiang Han:** Yeah,
**Rich O'Grady:** do the question is are they significantly different roles or are they similar
**John Mull:** Good.
**Rich O'Grady:** roles but ultimately you need to
**Qiang Han:** it's a similar role. It's is the same role as John, but John is more Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** right like
**John Mull:** Yeah. Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** that.
**John Mull:** I think we'll be doing a lot of development of the SDK throughout
**Qiang Han:** Yeah. together.
**John Mull:** this

**(00:18:18)**
**Qiang Han:** Yeah. And judges also will help us to evaluate and enable scope uh to be surface as the first demand gen use cases in this.
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay, let let me ping him now actually and see if he's available to join this
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Why they're doing that? I see from Mike and I um from our end uh I don't see an issue with the definition. It's very high level at this point. Um so I'm fine with it. I do think you know long term we need to sort out you know what are the different components and where they where they being hosted and run and operated. Um, I know as part of the proposal that we put forward, we stipulated we'd be running uh the components for the data pipeline and scoring API, but obviously that's that's just a piece of all of these
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** components.
**Rich O'Grady:** And and acknowledging that I think is really important. That's why I say this is like cross functional team. But like in reality you've also got commitments to the community by nature of passing an SPE that you have to adhere adhere to, right?
**(00:19:31)**
**Rich O'Grady:** So you know fully acknowledge that but at the same time I don't want you working in isolation purely on the SP you know it's Yeah.
**Qiang Han:** Yeah.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Yeah. Yeah. Just saying you know in terms of uh where we where in terms of planning and discussions at some stage we're going to have to cross the bridge of okay how do we pull all this together and operationalize it and there's so there's not a specific role here around ops and platform
**Qiang Han:** Yep.
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** management and production and stuff like
**Qiang Han:** Yeah.
**John Mull:** Sorry,
**Qiang Han:** You know that will be my my next action item.
**John Mull:** it's
**Qiang Han:** You know once upon the Mar one deliverable from you guys. My immediate action is to share with you in terms of the pieces and API to integrate into this and also talking about the operation infrastructure as well.
**Rich O'Grady:** Let's let's we're coming to that. You're jumping the gun, guys. Um like that's a that's a topic that we need to discuss when working together.

**(00:20:27)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Um because we do need some consistency um is is key. Mike, you've said something here. I've I've added Josh, which is great. I've also sent in the link if he wants to join the call. Um Mike, you said here data share isn't necessarily a role, but ensuring all groups involved are taking into consideration how the data is shared flows through the cloud SP system, especially the work. I mean data flowing through the network.
**Mike Zoop:** Yeah, it's not necessarily a role like I said it just literally like everyone's building software and systems
**Rich O'Grady:** Um
**Mike Zoop:** if it's local gateways or they're building on top of the go live pure existing gateway data needs to pass through the cloud SPE's analytics platform in order for it to become transparent to the network at at large and I just want to make sure that everybody is taking that into consideration because ultimately all of the data sources are going to be what come into uh you know Chun's dashboard and and it's going to be what fuels it. So we definitely got to make sure everyone's aligned on that particular point.

**(00:21:31)**
**Mike Zoop:** Like I said, not really a role. Maybe I am jumping the gun
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah, definitely jumping the gun, but appreciate the the input. Um I I I definit appreciate like we got to acknowledge that and we got to think about how we can work that in. Um but I think with the plug-in architecture that should be all right discussion for another day. Um Josh, welcome. Um thank you for joining 20 minutes in. Um, but we haven't actually co covered that much and there's a lot you can um, uh, there's a lot that you can just go back over the recording. Um, Chun mentioned that you should be here and I definitely think you should based on the fact that a lot of what you're working on will be vital to the network product platform that ultimately will drive you know value to the um, ecosystem as a whole. So, I've put you down here, role and responsibilities. Um, yeah, no problem. No problem about not bringing an interpreter. I think for this one, it's yeah, just just chuck comments in the chat.

**(00:22:40)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Um, but it's a lot of admin stuff this uh this this meeting. Um, so yeah, basically put you down here. You know, this is not an official role and responsibility. It's just like what is the function that you're playing within this crossf functional team. Um, so yeah, just just got you down here working on the the platform with with uh with John uh with with John and obviously working with CH.
**John Mull:** Yeah, I've got some changes and stuff to push to the SDK on top of what Josh has done.
**Rich O'Grady:** Cool.
**John Mull:** It's been catching up because we we our our initial design was limited in in terms of some of the stuff that we're working on now.
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**John Mull:** uh which we probably need to continue our design and build on. But
**Rich O'Grady:** And Josh, just for context for you, what we're saying is like obviously there's different teams working on different parts of the
**John Mull:** yeah,
**Rich O'Grady:** ecosystem, but the the network product should really be the shelling point where everything comes together.

**(00:23:38)**
**Rich O'Grady:** And having this mindset as an ecosystem makes it much easier to drive network just network product development as a whole because we have that you know central place which is the sort of single source of truth if it's not here you know is is it really driving value to the light pin network. Um, awesome. Let's go back to the meeting notes where Yeah. So, any any clarifying questions of your role or others? Josh, do you did I give you access? Uh, like I'm not sure you can see this. There we go.
**John Mull:** Here's a link to that specific grow.
**Rich O'Grady:** Share it again. Yeah. Great. You shared it. Okay. Great. Um and overall okay um any other clarifying questions? Okay, great. Any contestations of like responsibilities that you see either within your own role or someone else's role that either you think that you own or that you think that you don't own.
**Qiang Han:** Can I have one clarification? You know what exactly technical program manager is responsible

**(00:25:00)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah.
**Qiang Han:** for? You know, Mar, I know it's quite high level in one line, but would like to hear from you, you know, in terms of that would be great. Yeah.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah. Uh so my roles and responsibility is to be the operational glue basically uh running the discussions uh and making sure that all of the tasks and all of the deliverables are coming along as we're moving forward and uh try to prevent any blockers or anticipate anything that may come up and try to like coordinate before we get to that point.
**Qiang Han:** Okay.
**Rich O'Grady:** Long
**Qiang Han:** So, so try to put on your spot.
**Rich O'Grady:** search.
**Qiang Han:** Yeah. You know, my intention is I would like you to hold us accountable. For example, we're engineering media. I will focus on technical stuff. You can see in the discussion we immediately jump into the details. We need someone to hold us accountable for the quality of deliverables not only just core but also SP in general. And you obviously will be accountable for go to marketing to make sure this things is agreeable on the time actually it's agreed to to deliver.

**(00:26:13)**
**Qiang Han:** So so that that that's one thing I want to you know clarify with you. Can you say the same?
**Rich O'Grady:** So maybe maybe I can come in and talk through two different like QA stuff right from a like a product perspective like is this really in a state which is testable shippable ready to go to market and have some sort of testing I will play more of a role from like a go to market perspective my job is to make sure there's not s*** published on the live pin network uh product that that ultimately like I don't feel that is representative of life is quality. Right. My dad's job is to ensure that we as a group are like you said Sean that we remain accountable to what we say we're going to deliver. So part of that is being clear of what we're saying at the beginning that we're going to deliver, right? To so the milestone stuff is really important for each track, right? We have epics as this collective team, right? But then within that we have work streams which ultimately need to then ship milestones.

**(00:27:25)**
**Rich O'Grady:** My dad's job is to make sure those milestones are are shipped. Is that is that fair enough? Our division of roles. Madame
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay.
**John Mull:** on my side, you know, I I definitely see the the need to work end to end and ensure quality in both CI/CD and and operational excellence. So, um, one thing I'm curious about is how if I'll be working with plug-in builders at all on that end to end or because this SDK really applies, I guess there um because I think that's also very important to the quality. So, we can get into probably the the scope of work to do,
**Qiang Han:** Dead.
**John Mull:** but it's as far as just ensuring high quality platform deliverable will be certain to-dos that are probably in different areas, but for the most part, I think the SDK and the orchestrator are a key part of that.
**Qiang Han:** Yeah. Um John,
**John Mull:** Anyway,
**Qiang Han:** in terms of the UI framework as this portal wise, I will work with you to finalize the process.

**(00:28:27)**
**Qiang Han:** I already have initial process in the place mostly automated already today on the GitHub repo.
**John Mull:** Okay.
**Qiang Han:** You can see CIC and very different test and quality checks
**John Mull:** Work on that a bit.
**Qiang Han:** development and develop and main branch you know pull request authorizations are set up already. So but that's just initial version I need to work with you and each plugin have its own you know autonomous you know to do it as they don't touch the core but in terms of SDK I think that's the areas you know John Josh you guys can work out in terms how to you know increase the visibility of the quality of that but I think we can figure that out together as well.
**John Mull:** Yeah.
**Qiang Han:** Um yeah.
**John Mull:** Yeah. Working on the authentication stuff yesterday kind of highlighted where that integration was. I had a few questions about like what a plug-in actually is in this context. And um thinking of the SDK as a client application. It could be several different builds of of apps out there.

**(00:29:24)**
**John Mull:** Um you know spinning up remote signers could be an app from an API perspective. So, I was curious on what those plugins are, but we'll get into that, I'm sure,
**Rich O'Grady:** Yes,
**John Mull:** more uh later.
**Qiang Han:** Yes.
**Rich O'Grady:** we that is the one topic that is the one topic I didn't want to discuss
**Qiang Han:** So I have the doc I have doc I just want to
**Rich O'Grady:** today.
**Qiang Han:** get everybody on the same page for this plugin because people use a lot. This plugin have three different types of the plug-in as architecturally uh constructed.
**Rich O'Grady:** C can we not discuss this today because this is going to be a big discussion that ultimately like everyone's going to have slightly different takes and we're going to need to clarify it. Right? So I think maybe you and I or maybe you you write down a first version of it. we try and get to a a you know an agreement of a plug-in by next week because it's a big discussion.
**Qiang Han:** It's already in the in the dock.

**(00:30:16)**
**John Mull:** Yeah, we could have a call to to get into the design.
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay.
**John Mull:** That' be good to get all the all the developers and everyone have a team call on that, I think.
**Rich O'Grady:** But it's it's the foundational question, right? So this is this is not me avoiding the topic.
**John Mull:** Right.
**Rich O'Grady:** I'm just avoiding the topic.
**John Mull:** Yeah, just a focus. Yeah,
**Rich O'Grady:** It's cool because it's it's gonna be fundamental gonna be fundamental to everything that we do.
**John Mull:** getting the schedule tight.
**Rich O'Grady:** Getting a really crystal clear of what a plugin is, what it's not, the different types of plugin as you've said Chung like but not now. Um, awesome. Okay. Any other contestations of responsibilities? No. Okay, cool. All right. Um, next up we have what I'm calling epics. And I am very open to not calling them epics. I just don't want to call them milestones. Okay. Now the reason is is there are two levels that we operate on.

**(00:31:18)**
**Rich O'Grady:** one is going to be operating on this collective group which includes the work that Mike Spedia are doing that Chang um John and Josh are doing and that myself pl and someone on BD side is going to be doing which are kind of three different work streams of a of a singular team what I'm calling an epic here is on this collective level so that everything that we do goes back to the work that we do as a full team. I'm going to pause there. Does that make sense the difference between an epic or what I'm calling an epic and a milestone which I know that cloud I know Mike Speedy you've already got a load of milestones. I know that Chun like you're going to have milestones on the platform side as well. I know that I'm going to have milestones as well. Does this make sense? the difference between epics and milestones and please say if it doesn't because it you know okay great um all right so collectively between this group I see there being three different epics and this is largely what Chong you've put forward and and I know that you and I have discussed this in a bit more detail um I've called epic one sort of like foundational metrics and platform Oh, Chang's called it.

**(00:32:44)**
**Rich O'Grady:** I've adapted it. And this is by the end of February where we get a lot of the work that Mike and Speedy, you're doing done to so that we have a dashboard ready. Um, and that ultimately there's we can the network product is observable but not as plugged into the the network product MVP. Right. Um, Chun, I also want to discuss with you and hear like what should be included from your track. What do we want to achieve by the end of February? I know there's this February 23rd cut off point or start point.
**Qiang Han:** Yep.
**Rich O'Grady:** Um, but let's come back to that in a minute. I just want to go through the epics and then um, we'll come back. Epic number two is actually launching publicly the network MVP for network as a product platform with core plugins that we think are critical to the success of of the live pin network product, right? And this involves launching platform um, you know having a dashboard overview having like plug-in life cycle manager management for how we integrate new plugins um, you know a clear UI staging and production infra and also some of the core work that Mike and Speedy you've been doing actually integrated into the network product already in an overview um and you know a couple of handful of other core plugins Right.

**(00:34:27)**
**Rich O'Grady:** The third epic will be on community plugins which is when we say okay this this is where Josh you hold your breath like John as well around like what is a plug-in um but plugins um will not just be built internally by like a core team. It will also the community will be able to build plugins which ultimately enable demand on the network, right? That might be based on job type by transcoding an AI as as an example. Um, but there may also be edge cases that we explore as plugins. For instance, Embody might have a plug-in for um uh you know launching a a developer API to have integrate um um you know avatars for AI agents, right? That's a potential plugin as well. So in that epic three, we will have completed the first community plug-in integrations and gone through some life cycles of reaching out to the community, thinking like okay, what the community can build can build and test a couple of these community built plugins into the the the network product. There's a lot in there that can be contested on the micro level, right?

**(00:35:51)**
**Rich O'Grady:** On the to ship. Before we come into that, how does everyone feel about those three epics at a high level, right? One is setting the foundations. Two is launching an MVP with core plugins. Three is then having these first community plugins built um, you know built. forget the hypothesis at this moment in time but built and integrated. Any push back any any clarifying questions? Let's start with
**John Mull:** This this looks good to me. Um on Epic 2, uh curious about core plugins and the value that those provide and which which are are in scope. Um what what they do and and what those requirements might be if we may be able to break that down more. I'm not sure. But otherwise, this looks good.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Yeah, I'm I'm with Josh and John on this. I I I would like to explore the plugins a little bit more.
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** I mean, if we if we want to get into that as a group to collectively assess priority and value, uh I know we have different roles and that may not be the role that I'm here for.

**(00:37:03)**
**Speedy Bird Tech:** So if that's that's that's the case, I'm I'm fine with that as well. But generally uh my review or or I guess preview of the map uh dashboard that Chung had um pulled together was certainly compelling from a number of different perspectives. um the piece that I still just generally have not gotten to a stage where I feel like I'm confident understanding the core concepts and the value and technical imple like design architecture around it is the plugins. So for me to look at these epics and say yeah check I'm I'm all for it. Uh it does come with that caveat that I'm not entirely certain about the plugins and how they are going to play a role in this. And obviously that's a pretty important thing considering how fundamental they are to the last two mile
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah, got it.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** ethics.
**Rich O'Grady:** And um just just uh following up with with Josh is I would push back on running arbitrary user code as plug-in, but a curated set of useful plugins would be super useful and the community should be able to contribute to those.

**(00:38:11)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Can we call them features instead of plugins? Do you not understand the life life cycle stuff either? Um where does that live? Yeah, I think this is great. And I think what this is all pointing to is we need a discussion on what plug it, plugins, features, modules. We need you know there's different words used for different things. We need a discussion on what they are and you know thinking of a prioritization framework for like what needs to be built first. Um I think that's safe to say but maybe just coming back to this what you're saying Speedy is in principle I am happy with what is there at the highest level but as you said a caveat is so long as I've I actually understand what a plug-in
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Yeah, I think fundamentally I center my understanding on this on how
**Rich O'Grady:** is
**Speedy Bird Tech:** I've been interested in seeing more market dynamics uh visible and um the dashboards the nap app that Chung had did show that a bit better than what we've traditionally been able to do and explore.

**(00:39:32)**
**Speedy Bird Tech:** So that's where I kind of anchored my interest in what that can offer. Um the plugins capabilities uh at at points confused me because you know not just uh from a you know technical perspective of who owns it, how's it run, why why am I going to build it but also uh this the the persona of the user coming to this app at times um seemed to cross boundaries that didn't necessarily make sense in one one application um at the same time where and that might just be a artifact of the demo, right? Where you're trying to show everything that it can do. So, you have to put your hat on. It's like I'm all personas looking at this app versus like here's a here's a set of plugins for this persona and this is the problems it's solving and why it's going to help live here get itself more visible
**Rich O'Grady:** Right.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** and more traction in the market. And ultimately, that's that's all I care about. I don't care what we call it.

**(00:40:29)**
**Speedy Bird Tech:** Um I do care somewhat about technical implementation but of course as many people know the
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** technical implementation doesn't always drive success in the market.
**John Mull:** Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah.
**John Mull:** Yeah, I mean, I think with Josh and work my my work that we've done on the the SDK, we've identified this path with remote signers in the SDK that allows a really fast on-ramp to the network and lowers the technical overhead. When you have a remote signer set up, your payment clearing house, your in your your network dashboard, I think that's our core MVP is the fact that we can do the whole flow. Um, we build plugins. I think of somebody just cloning the repo and building an app and going and getting going to the dashboard and getting API key for it. Um, how we issue API keys and what they provide access to and how we track usage is a big uh problem to solve that it's a lot of work to do there. Um, but on the plug-in side I see those as you know applications accessing capabilities in the network.

**(00:41:33)**
**John Mull:** One thing we know that isn't software right now is developers being able to deploy new capabilities specifically and you know being able to run their own code. Um, and I think we would benefit to look at some other industry leaders and see what what what's all available out there like a generic containerized type thing. But um I I looked a little bit about the at the plugins and I noticed there's like a lot of bash scripts and background processes and plugins running. It was hard for me to really figure it out. But I I trust that it's just early stage stuff and it's well thought out and I'm really curious to learn more about what we have.
**Rich O'Grady:** I think this is all fantastic and and we need to have a followup this week on this topic like what is a plug-in and I before we go into any sort of like implementation integration like we need to be clear and you know speedy used the word persona it's like plugins should have a clear persona they should have a clear like hypothesis for what they're trying to to add value right to to the lip project as a whole and I I say lipier project as a whole because I don't want we I don't think we need to be too narrow here but we also then need to think about from a plug-in perspective how do we then prioritize based on on opportunities that the lie project the

**(00:42:59)**
**Rich O'Grady:** hypotheses that that the lie project has right of where we should be going after. Um, okay. I'm going to I'm going to park that discussion there and I think we need to we need to follow up in the next couple of days. Should should we preliminary have a discussion on Thursday surrounding this? Does that work for folks? Is are people here on Thursday?
**Qiang Han:** Can I can I also suggest the following rather than guessing you know what we're talking about here you know we bring up many different you know point of angles like you know from the past experience the code is there the code is in the lightn you know download it using the startsh started one there's a full documentation describe the architecture what the plugin is technically what types of the plugin is technically. So let's get on the same page based on what we have today. Let's start from scratch again from basic testing there. So I think if we all look at the code look at the documentation based on the code then we have the discussion about the plug because you know otherwise it's really hard to drive the you know discussion as I can say.

**(00:44:22)**
**Qiang Han:** Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** I couldn't agree more. And so before that meeting, we need to have something that we all review which is a single source of truth of ch what you you envision a plug-in to be and then to be able to have a discussion around it facilitated so that we get we we get feedback on that uh on on what you envision a plug-in to be to you know just have that space where we can discuss it. Um because I don't think anyone's, like you said, I think everyone's guessing. Everyone's got their own idea of of what a plugin
**(00:45:32)**
**Qiang Han:** Yes, exactly. I want to say, you know, if you want to get as complete as possible,
**Rich O'Grady:** is.
**Qiang Han:** download the code. Everything's in the code. It's in the plug-in folders. And also, there's a full feature, you know, documentation together with it to describe exactly the architecture, data flow, control flow, different types of the plug-in, examples of those per plugin as well. So not overselling a lot but I also can get out the only the conceptual part you know for this audience as well send it out you know for everybody to read something code so so yeah I think as long as we all look at that and then we come back we can at least talk
**Qiang Han:** because don't imagine this is not a is a magic bullet this is a simply a portal to bring all existing services surface to one product surface a lot of people to test It doesn't invent new capabilities into the network. It only surface network capabilities. If you talk about invent new capabilities like bring your own container something like that, that's not part of this scope. Okay, this will be a utility to enable or make that possibility to happen. But that's much more difficult conversation we need to have because if we want to make our infrastructure like you know any workflow can run as a serverless I think you know currently that's much more difficult to do in ter architecture I don't even know where to start but to bring the value to the user which user now we have a product service to try rather than just coding the GitHub or API which is rest difficult to use we actually can bring something to them, you know, as it as possible. So, so in that sense, I think this NA is positioned precisely for that.

**(00:46:43)**
**Qiang Han:** It's like you go to AWS or Google Cloud Platform, they keep adding new things. Nobody understand what they adding, but their console, the cloud console always give you unique, you know, experiences in terms of how to see existing capabilities. We need to build that piece first and then we add new thing and we surface that you know consistently so far we don't even have the piece to show what we have. So that's the what this MVP is all about. Yeah. Okay.
**John Mull:** Let's
**Qiang Han:** I pause here but you know I think that will make the Thursday the discussion whatever that's coming along a little bit
**Rich O'Grady:** Let's let's
**John Mull:** see.
**Rich O'Grady:** let's
**Qiang Han:** more more more confident.
**Rich O'Grady:** pause um also because everyone will have their own viewpoint, right? And yeah, I think we need to make sure that they're surfaced so that we come to terms and we at least get consent from everyone of like a singular definition of what a plug-in um is, whether we want to call it a button.

**(00:47:42)**
**Rich O'Grady:** All right. So my plan will be to create a a one-off meeting on Thursday but with this group heavily facilitate try and get it in 30 minutes right and there will be pre-ereading for that meeting. Okay and Ch you and I will prepare that pre-ereading to make sure that it's um it's there. Does that work for everyone Thursday?
**Speedy Bird Tech:** It works for me. I I I would just say like as as far as the technical nature of the plugin,
**John Mull:** Seven.
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay.
**Speedy Bird Tech:** I mean, I've looked at the repository, it's pretty large. There's a lot of different things going on in there. And the plug-in architecture is documented and marked down. Uh, and I understand it's, you know, basically trying to be its own standalone app that follows a standard way to plug in to the application and be run and have its own capabilities. Um, but even preceding all the technical aspects of it, what I what I'm getting at is trying to crystallize in my mind what are the top five plugins that we see as the necessary first plugins because you know you're not going to release a plug-in framework and people are going to just build them when there's nothing there.

**(00:48:54)**
**Speedy Bird Tech:** So what are the key ones? So in terms of prepping for that discussion on Thursday having you know uh those that list and it doesn't need to be top five but let's just say what are the plugins you guys have idea at this point that uh help to further the current strategy uh for live beer.
**Qiang Han:** Yeah, I will prepare that list for Thursday.
**Rich O'Grady:** Great.
**John Mull:** I see some of the plugins look to be like more network level things and others are more like
**Rich O'Grady:** So,
**John Mull:** specific pipeline related plugins it seems.
**Rich O'Grady:** yeah,
**John Mull:** So
**Rich O'Grady:** and I think Chung, you're going to say that there's like there's that that variability.
**John Mull:** different
**Rich O'Grady:** Those three different types of plugins are precisely to service those different
**Qiang Han:** Yes,
**Rich O'Grady:** needs.
**Qiang Han:** they were surface most of the use cases. Obviously, there will be more to come in if we we get into this. Um, for the core plugins initially after the epic 2, we want to present it as a part of this launch, you know, I think we have a pretty good idea in terms of what are the definite minimum set of it.

**(00:50:00)**
**Qiang Han:** We don't need to go like you know a lot we you know this the code you see today for me to validate this architecture I build 13 plugins just validate the stuff I can build using this architecture but those are not the set
**John Mull:** Then
**Qiang Han:** of to be launched is really just to help us learn how to validate this is working different ways so yeah it's just example code for learn
**Rich O'Grady:** end of plug-in discussion. I knew this was going to be like the core the core like uh Tinder to you
**Qiang Han:** Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** know spark the flames. So let's let's talk more on Thursday. I want to just cover this quickly. This is the adminishy stuff which is actually really key because we're building publicly and I want us to have the idea that we are building publicly. We will be taking on funding. There is already treasury funding with cloud SPE, right? Um, so we want to make sure that we're doing this in public. So, a couple of things just to to to get clear.

**(00:51:01)**
**Rich O'Grady:** Firstly, um, I wanted to pro propose that we um that we meet weekly on Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. GMT for 30 minutes in the future. Right? That is two hours before this meeting starts usually. So starting next Tuesday, this would be our weekly sync and my dad would be running this meeting on a weekly sync basis. Does every does that work for everyone? Yeah. Okay, great. Um, the other thing is that my dad and I will be working on a glossery for this precise reason from a like what the f*** is a plugin? Um so we're going to be working on a glossery as we go right um to ensure that everyone within this team comes comes to terms uh and this will be on GitHub right um third thing is comms channels now currently there are a variety of DMs that are happening and what I wanted to to suggest or this is this is what my dad suggest or my dad do you want to introduce this why why you think um in project updates and go into a couple a bit of this.

**(00:52:19)**
**Rich O'Grady:** It's better coming from
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** you
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** So, basically right now we have a lot of DMs going around and uh moving all of these DMs to the channels as we did with Cloud SP has a couple of benefits. It's very easy to rope in people from the community if needed and also since we are building in public it is easy for people to uh check in see what's going on and uh read if they uh want to understand how things are moving forward. It also helps you to look through the other silos of work because as we're progressing we have these different verticals of work which is being done on the network analysis or on plugins on or on the platform itself. So if you need to check in you can easily do that.
**Rich O'Grady:** Do
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** And regarding the decision on GitHub as we are again we're public and also we are taking this AI first approach of building it's it is much easier to hold everything in one place. So as we are generating information, we're having discussions, we're all just going through all of this process, we can also feed all of this information to the AIS quite easily.

**(00:53:35)**
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** We've been experimenting with using the project uh and milestones with
**Rich O'Grady:** you want to give a quick demo? Sorry.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** GitHub. Um, yep. Have my screen. Yeah. So, uh we've been using GitHub uh milestones for all of for uh the explorer project and for the cloud project and it's very easy for community to actually go through and see how things are progressing. And since everyone is using GitHub already to do the comments and make the issues, it would be much easier for you to actually keep the progress and update. Now I understand there are other tools like linear like uh Jira that are like far more powerful in doing this but keeping it in GitHub gives us this uh this ability to make everything public and enable the AI as well to work on it. And uh the idea is going to be to have three different uh boards with three different milestone verticals for each of the work silos that are going to happen simultaneously and have one umbrella board which holds the epics inside it.

**(00:55:02)**
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** And uh we can connect all of these so we can have a view of the uh current project. Also, it enables the AI to later on systematically generate information uh progress updates for us, which is not important right now. But by holding everything that we are doing in a central place, we can process the information much faster. Yep. Um just going to stop sharing and
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**John Mull:** Do
**Rich O'Grady:** Thanks. Okay. So, basically what to to sort of TLDDR the the overview is
**John Mull:** we
**Rich O'Grady:** everything we do will be on GitHub and even to the point where we may start looking at like taking meeting notes and and sort of you know doing an update on GitHub, right? Why? Because it's in public and as Mad said it's the easiest way. Any contestations to that? I know that Mike and Speedy are already doing this. So this is mostly for Chung, John and Josh. Do you feel comfortable doing that within within GitHub rather than linear or notion or elsewhere?

**(00:56:17)**
**Rich O'Grady:** That's the right answer. You do feel comfortable. Um okay, great.
**John Mull:** One question about like building out um our milestones and and planning the work.
**Rich O'Grady:** So
**John Mull:** Like will we have like an iterative meeting? I guess we were talking about Tuesday meetings. It might be a planning call. I'm not sure. Um,
**Rich O'Grady:** yeah,
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Uh yeah
**Rich O'Grady:** great. Sean.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** on uh yeah, the comment on my
**Rich O'Grady:** Oh, mad. Do you want to
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** side is that yes that 30 minute meeting is for us to sync on the important stuff but
**Rich O'Grady:** comment?
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** the ideal way to do this is to push everything and as much as possible to async. So in each of the verticals uh we're going to have to you already create the issues the work is being generated and based on the deliverables either you make those issues or like I have to come and like add some of the issues. But uh once we have all of that we try to absorb as much information as possible async and only surface what is needed on the sync time.

**(00:57:23)**
**John Mull:** Makes sense.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Does that make sense?
**John Mull:** Yeah.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah.
**John Mull:** Yeah. So basically we we create issues just organically as as we see the needs and and we get assigned
**Rich O'Grady:** Sorry.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Rich.
**John Mull:** work.
**Qiang Han:** Yeah, for for engineering core like John, Josh and me,
**John Mull:** Okay.
**Qiang Han:** we were do our weekly planning stand up, you know, as we need it.
**Rich O'Grady:** Great.
**Qiang Han:** So my speed, they do their own and then we
**Rich O'Grady:** I think ju just to just to make sure we we've come to terms.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yes.
**Rich O'Grady:** Madab also what you're saying is like to get some idea of the different milestones they should be prepopulated before to give a road map or is this only a week before?
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** No. So, uh, basically as the teams are moving forward, they are generating these issues. So, for example, right now, I think Sean has a pretty good idea at least in epic one, what needs to be done in terms of the issues. So it would be great same as Mike and SPD we have a series of milestones and tasks from your side and this way we can plan ahead how things are moving from forward from my SPD side and how are we looking timelinewise against yours and it helps me to like put everything on a critical path and figure out how delays in one section can cause a significant delay in other parts of the project.

**(00:58:47)**
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** So, it's going to be a collaborative effort for us to actually manage this process. From your side, it's going to be the creation of the issues and committing them into a milestone and timeline. And from my side, it's going to be managing all of these different milestones in different verticals and make sure everything is coming along harmoniously.
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay. So, mad I I presume you can take a lead to sit down with Ch John to like get that nailed for the first epic i.e. the next two weeks.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yes. Uh we can set up another call on this. Uh
**Rich O'Grady:** Great.
**Qiang Han:** I need to jump on another call
**Rich O'Grady:** Yeah. Thanks. Thanks, Chunk.
**Qiang Han:** but yeah yeah sure
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** but
**Rich O'Grady:** just have a look at these right I'll share these in the followup these are
**Qiang Han:** yeah so I'll share the documents you know place in the GitHub you guys just click and
**Rich O'Grady:** the
**Qiang Han:** look at those concept in terms of architecture technical side you know it's going to help us for s the

**(00:59:44)**
**Rich O'Grady:** yeah let's let's sync also async to get that
**Qiang Han:** discussion Okay, bye.
**Rich O'Grady:** that call sorted for Thursday all right on like discussion of what is a plugin
**John Mull:** Yeah, it sounds like one artifact going into that process of of you know creating issues and tasks could be a tech spec or design or at least a design call with the team and the kind of things we know what we're building. But these are just deeper dives beyond the ethics. Nothing. Thanks.
**Rich O'Grady:** Okay.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Um yeah, we definitely need to figure out like from Mike and Speedy's side, it's very clear what needs to be done in epic one at least. But uh from your side,
**John Mull:** Yeah,
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** we need to have the list of issues and committing them to the time to the milestone and then commit
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** multiple milestones to one epic which help that process.
**John Mull:** great.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yeah.
**Rich O'Grady:** Anything to add from anyone?
**John Mull:** I I think Josh and I can work a lot more on the the design aspects of this over the coming days and with
**Rich O'Grady:** Awesome.
**John Mull:** with Ch.
**Rich O'Grady:** So, these are the to-dos. Sorry, Mad, I've chugged you in with a lot. I can also support with that. Um, but yeah, I'll let you sort of take the reigns. Thanks, Paulina. Um, I'll let you take the reigns as to um moving forward.
**Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Yep. Thank

The transcription ended at 01:03:42.