Feb 10, 2026
Network Product Team Sync - Transcript

**00:00:00**
*   **Recording:** Rich O'Grady initiates recording. Mehrdad Sadeghi starts Gemini for notes.
*   **Attendees:** Rich O'Grady, Mehrdad Sadeghi, Qiang Han, Speedy Bird Tech, John Mull, Mike Zoop (joining later due to heating issues).

**00:02:45 - Network Product Vision and Cross-Functional Team**
*   Rich O'Grady emphasizes the importance of the network product and the need for a cross-functional team.
*   The goal is to establish a regular cadence for team alignment and progress towards "big goals."
*   The foundation heavily supports the network product as critical to the ecosystem.
*   **Action:** Ensure the group knows what each member is working on.

**00:03:58 - Meeting Agenda**
*   Introductions (team and network product).
*   Review of roles and responsibilities.
*   Discussion of timeline and "epics" (collective goals).
*   Collaboration methods and next steps.

**00:05:14 - Team Introductions and Roles**
*   **Rich O'Grady:** Focus on growth and go-to-market for Livepeer.
*   **John Mull:** Orchestrator for four years, runs Elite Encoder node, develops with Livepeer.
*   **Qiang Han:** From Inc. side, initiated portal-based NA project.
*   **Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Ecosystem-wide PM, tracks foundation programs.
*   **Speedy Bird Tech:** Orchestrator, software engineering background, working on data pipelines for observability.
*   **Mike Zoop:** Orchestrator, software engineer, involved in grant projects and Cloud SP proposals.
*   **Pelina (Marketing Manager):** Handles distribution and communications.

**00:07:35 - MVP One Pager and Network Product Overview**
*   **MVP One Pager:** Introduced as a single source of truth for the network product. Feedback requested.
*   **Network Product Vision:** A central "shelling point" for developers to access and engage with the network (gateways, transcoding, AI).
*   **MVP Core Aim:** Enabling demand on the network.
*   **Network Product Characteristics:** Observable, performant (reliable, scalable, secure), and user-centric.

**00:11:42 - Modular Architecture and Community Plugins**
*   The product is built with a modular, plugin-based approach.
*   Core plugins will be built initially, with community development eventually taking over.
*   The platform will act as a "pseudo app store" for plugins.

**00:14:47 - Review of Roles and Responsibilities**
*   Clarification of roles: Mike Zoop and Speedy Bird Tech designated as data engineers.
*   **Action:** Participants to review their roles and responsibilities in the shared document.
*   **Josh:** Identified as significant contributor to the SDK initiative, working alongside John Mull.

**00:20:27 - Data Sharing Consistency**
*   **Mike Zoop:** Emphasizes the need for consistent data sharing across all software development groups to ensure data flows correctly through the cloud SP analytics platform and feeds into dashboards.

**00:22:40 - SDK Development and Quality Assurance**
*   **John Mull:** Stresses the importance of end-to-end quality in CI/CD and operational excellence, and curiosity about working with plugin builders.
*   **Qiang Han:** Confirms collaboration with John Mull on the UI framework process.
*   **John Mull:** Notes the SDK needs continued development to keep up with initial design limitations.

**00:28:27 - Postponement of Plug-in Discussion**
*   Discussion shifts to defining "plugins," with questions about core plugins and the SDK as a client application.
*   **Rich O'Grady:** Postpones the plugin architecture discussion to a dedicated meeting to avoid diverging opinions.
*   **Qiang Han:** Mentions documentation on plug-in architecture is available in the code repository.

**00:31:18 - Network Product Epics**
*   Three collective "epics" defined for the team:
1.  **Epic 1: Foundational Metrics and Platform:** Achieve observability and a dashboard by the end of February.
2.  **Epic 2: Network MVP Launch:** Publicly launch the Network MVP with core plugins, platform, dashboard, plugin lifecycle management, and integrated observable data.
3.  **Epic 3: Community Plugins:** Integrate and test the first community-built plugins to enable network demand.

**00:35:51 - Need for Plug-in Clarity**
*   **John Mull, Speedy Bird Tech, Josh:** Express the need for greater clarity on core plugins, their value, and technical implementation.
*   **Speedy Bird Tech:** Highlights confusion around core concepts and technical design of plugins.
*   **Josh:** Suggests using "features" instead of "plugins" and focusing on a curated set.

**00:41:33 - Follow-up Meeting on Plug-ins and Preparation**
*   **Rich O'Grady:** Agrees to a dedicated 30-minute facilitated meeting on Thursday to discuss plugins.
*   **Qiang Han:** Tasked with preparing pre-reading material on the plug-in architecture, types, and initial core plugins.
*   **Qiang Han:** Clarifies the MVP is a portal to surface existing network services, not invent new ones, similar to a cloud platform console.

**00:51:01 - Administrative and Operational Updates**
*   **Weekly Sync:** Proposes a fixed weekly sync meeting every Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. GMT for 30 minutes, run by Mehrdad Sadeghi.
*   **Glossary:** Rich O'Grady and Mehrdad Sadeghi to create a public glossary on GitHub to clarify terms like "plugin."
*   **Comms Channels:** Suggestion to move all communications from DMs to public channels and use GitHub for project updates, milestones, and issues.

**00:53:35 - Process Management and GitHub Integration**
*   **Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Demonstrates GitHub milestones for project management, emphasizing public building and AI integration capabilities.
*   **Consensus:** Use GitHub for planning and updates, promoting asynchronous communication.

**00:58:47 - Process Management and Milestones**
*   **Mehrdad Sadeghi:** Outlines his role in creating issues and committing them to milestones, while Rich O'Grady manages milestones across verticals.
*   **Action:** Mehrdad Sadeghi to coordinate with John Mull to finalize the first epic for the next two weeks.

**00:59:44 - Technical Specifications and Documentation**
*   **John Mull:** Suggests tech specs or design calls as artifacts feeding into issue creation.
*   **Qiang Han:** Agrees to share documents on GitHub covering architecture and technical aspects.
*   **Rich O'Grady:** Notes clarity on Epic 1 for Mike and Speedy, but John Mull's team needs to provide issues and commit to a milestone.

**01:00:00 - Next Steps and Collaboration**
*   **John Mull:** Will work with Josh on design aspects with Qiang Han.
*   **Rich O'Grady:** Confirms the need for a Thursday call to discuss plugins. Mehrdad Sadeghi to lead next steps.

---
## Suggested next steps

*   Rich O'Grady will create a one-off meeting on Thursday for the group to discuss the definition and prioritization of "plugins".
*   The group will meet weekly on Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. GMT for 30 minutes, starting next Tuesday.
*   Rich O'Grady and Mehrdad Sadeghi will work on a glossary to ensure everyone on the team comes to terms with terminology like "plugin".
*   Rich O'Grady and Qiang Han will prepare the pre-reading material and the list of core plugins for the Thursday meeting.
*   Rich O'Grady will share the documents in the followup.
*   John Mull and The group will work on the design aspects of this over the coming days.